#
# CHANGES.pod
#
# A reverse-chronological order list of changes to the Perl Shell.
#

=head1 NAME

Change log for B<psh> - The Perl SHell

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A reverse-chronological ordered list of changes

=cut

# This is so pod2man won't complain ;-)


###############################################################################
###############################################################################
##
## CVS
##
###############################################################################
###############################################################################

=head1 CVS HEAD

=head2 New Features

=over 4

=item * 

New B<-F> command line switch to disable processing of any pshrc files

=item *

New builtin command B<modules> to display a list of loaded Perl modules

=back

=head2 Fixes

=over 4

=item *

Major startup speedup

=item *

There was a small, not very often occurring bug related to the usage of
Env::Array, due to a typo

=item *

Handling of ~ for username expansion should be bug-free now

=item *

The help builtin sometimes returned the wrong help (e.g. C<help set>
returned the help of setenv)

=back


###############################################################################
###############################################################################
##
## 0.009
##
###############################################################################
###############################################################################

=head1 0.009 [2001-01-05]

=head2 New Features

=over 4

=item *

New builtin B<rename> - this does the same as Larry Wall's PPT program
but profits from being integrated into B<psh> (it can use B<psh> subs
and variables for the modification).
- warp [2000-05-01]

=item *

C<Psh::OS::backtick()> now can call and capture the output of
B<psh> builtins on Unix.
- warp [2000-05-01]

=item *

Added new builtin B<fc> which is similar to the command of the same
name from B<bash> - inspired by a command on the SourceForge
message board (and I finally start to like this command ;-).
- warp [2000-05-03]

=item *

The builtin B<history> now also accepts a text as argument. In that
case it will only print commands containing that text.
- warp [2000-07-08]

=item *

The builtin B<fc> now understands the switch C<-p>. Also it's more
behaviour compatible with B<bash>'s B<fc>.

=item *

New builtin B<bind> which does keybindings (similar to B<bash>).
- Andrew Turner [2000-08-11]

=item *

New builtin B<drives> which shows the available drives on Windows.
- warp [2000-08-26]

=back


=head2 Internals

=over 4

=item *

New sub C<Psh::Util::prompt()> for interactive prompting.
- warp [2000-05-01]

=item *

Cleanups in C<Psh::OS::Unix::_setup_redirects> and
C<...::_remove_redirects>.
- warp [2000-05-01]

=item *

Added C<Psh::add_history> so builtins etc. can modify history
easily.
- warp [2000-07-08]

=item *

Quotes are removed from file names in redirections.
- warp [2000-07-08]

=item *

Fixed variable substitution in C<Psh::PerlEval> so that whitespace
after a backslash does not split words anymore.
- warp [2000-07-08]

=item *

Half-hearted attempt at getting whitespace and special characters
in TAB completion right.
- warp [2000-07-08]

=item *

C<Psh::OS::exit> renamed to C<Psh::OS::exit_psh> due to problems
with POSIX's B<exit>.
- warp [2000-08-26]

=item *

Removed/reduced usage of F<Cwd.pm> due to partly strange behaviour
on non-UNIX systems.
 - warp [2000-08-26]

=item *

The B<help> builtin cleans up the temp files it creates.
- warp [2000-08-26]

=back


=head2 Fixes

=over 4

=item *

The parser now allows usage of ->.
- warp [2000-07-27]

=item *

Should work on Perl 5.004 again.
 - warp [2000-07-31]

=item *

Windows port works and tested on ActiveState Perl 5.6.
- warp [2000-08-26]

=item *

Removed some errors and problems with Windows in prompt package.
- warp [2000-07-31]

=back


###############################################################################
###############################################################################
##
## 0.008
##
###############################################################################
###############################################################################

=head1 0.008 [2000-04-30]

=head2 New and Enhanced Built-ins

=over 4

=item B<cd> and B<dirs>

The B<cd> builtin now has a (currently unlimited) history list, accessible
using:

  cd -/+/%number

The new builtin B<dirs> displays the stack.

=item B<complete>

Adds a mightier and B<bash> compatible way to define custom completions.

=item B<firsttime>

A firsttime user setup utility for the F<.pshrc> file. It cannot do a lot
currently but will grow in future.

=item B<function>

Tries to emulate B<bash>'s behaviour.

=item B<history>

=item B<unalias>

Does not remove builtins of the same name anymore.

=back


=head2 New Features

=over 4

=item *

Extended Completion code for Perl (supports C<$#foo>, C<$foo-E<gt>{key>,
C<$foo-E<gt>method>, subroutine without C<&>, B<perl> reserved symbol)

=item *

Executable completion now even after initial C<!> for shell escape

=item *

Some minimal status code testing and error handling for user input.

=item *

Understands environment variable C<$IGNOREEOF>.

=item *

Accepts the B<-i> command line switch and ignores it for B<bash> compatibility.

=item *

If the line you entered matches the last line it won't be added to the history.

=item *

On Unix, support for a global F<.pshrc> file at F</etc/pshrc>.

=item *

New variable C<@Psh::executable_noexpand>.

=item *

New variable C<$Psh::interactive> which is set if B<psh> is currently in interactive
mode.

=back


=head2 Bugs Fixed

=over 4

=item *

Fixed some small problems with globbing code.

=item *

Fixed problem with B<pod2man> and F<CHANGES.pod> reported on Sourceforge.

=item *

C<SIGTERM> and C<SIGHUP> are not ignored anymore and cause B<psh> to exit instead.

=item *

Switch B<-r> now reserved for restricted mode, new switch B<-f> for alternative
resource file.

=item *

Fixed problem with quoting which was not removed for the executable strategy.

=item *

Piping is now possible in aliases.

=item *

The parser now allows nesting aliases.

=back

=cut


###############################################################################
###############################################################################
##
## 0.007
##
###############################################################################
###############################################################################


=head1 0.007 [2000-02-14]

Contributions primarily by Markus Peter (C<warp>) and Simon Huggins
(C<huggie>).


=head2 New Features

=over 4

=item *

Support for window titles. New environment variable C<$PSH_TITLE>,
C<$Psh::change_title>, C<$Psh::window_title>. The behavior is like prompt
strings.

=item *

Strategy B<perlfunc> is a default strategy again. C<$Psh::perlfunc_builtins>
determines wether Perl builtins should be C<eval>ed (default 0)

=item *

Builtin B<kill> now supports sending a signal to a named job (e.g. "C<emacs & ;
kill emacs>").

=item *

Builtin B<strategy> for loading strategies on demand and adding them to
the list of strategies to use. Handy for strategies that are used less often
than the core strategies.

=item *

Properly pipeable aliases.

=item *

Fallback and most other builtins are loaded on demand.

=item *

Converted C<&Psh::symbols()> into a builtin, B<symbols>.

=item *

New builtin B<set>.  Acts like B<bash>'s B<set> and returns environment.  Could be
extended to allow C<set -o noclobber> B<bash>-isms to work.

=item *

New strategy C<auto_cd>.

=item *

Builtin B<strategy> now knows command B<available> to list available strategies

=back


=head2 Bug Fixes

=over 4

=item *

The Unix resize handler now works correctly in big B<xterm>s.

=item *

Added C<print "\n"> on CTRL-C to clean up display.

=item *

Fixed generation of C<$Psh::history_file>.

=back


=head2 Other Changes

=over 4

=item *

Added F<README.perl5.004> to explain about C<File::Spec>

=item *

Strategies C<fallback_builtin> and C<perlfunc> modularized and moved into C<Psh::Strategy::*>

=item *

C<Perlfunc> configuration variables are now in C<Psh::Strategy::Perlfunc> for cleanliness.

=item *

Removed C<&Psh::news()> since there's no need for it being included in B<psh> just for the B<tryme> script.

=item *

List of builtins for which autoloading is supported is built automatically during startup.

=back


=cut


###############################################################################
###############################################################################
##
## 0.006
##
###############################################################################
###############################################################################


=head1 0.006 [2000-01-03]

Refinements to 0.005.

New Features:

=over 4

=item *

New builtin B<delenv>.

=item *

Builtin B<kill> accepts multiple PIDs.

=item *

Saving the history file now respects C<$Psh::history_size> if
C<Term::ReadLine::Perl> is used

=item *

Manifest Filters for pipeline code, e.g. try:

    ls | s/y/k/                      # Substitution. Example is a Y2K fix.
    ls | { print ++$i, ": $_"; }q    # Quick. Iterate over lines.
    netstat | { $_[1]>2; }g          # Grepish. Print line if { ... } evaluates to true.

See the B<psh> documentation for more information.

=item *

New recursive globbing using C<**/> (Example: C<grep anything **/*.pm>).

=back


Win32 Port Enhancements:

=over 4

=item *

It now works. 0.005 was missing a couple of patches.

=item *

Makes use of system registry.

=item *

Implementations of C<execute_complex_command()>, C<get_hostname()>,
C<get_all_users()>, C<get_home_dir()>, and C<get_known_hosts()>.

=back


Internals:

=over 4

=item *

Moved prompt code and B<perl> evaluation code into own packages.

=item *

Implementing redirects and pipes in B<psh>.

=item *

Clean-ups for all code using filenames (now using C<File::Spec>).

=item *

More I18N.

=item *

Removed usage of C<$ENV{HOME}> in portable code.

=back

=cut


###############################################################################
###############################################################################
##
## 0.005
##
###############################################################################
###############################################################################


=head1 0.005 [1999-12-28]

A very functional release.


=head2 New Evaluation Strategies

=over 4

=item *

brace

=item *

fallback_builtin

Builtins of this type (currently searched in package C<Psh::Builtins::Fallback>)
will be executed AFTER no program of that name was found.
This allows simulation of common commands like B<ls> and
B<env> on systems not having such binaries.

=item *

auto_resume

=back


=head2 New Bultins

=over 4

=item *

B<builtin>

=item *

B<env>

On systems with an B<env> binary installed it will use the binary, on other
systems (namely Win32) it will print a list of environment variables.

=item *

B<help>

=item *

B<unalias>

=back



=head2 Builtin Enhancements

=over 4

=item *

B<alias>

Changed builtin B<alias> so that 'C<alias name>' displays the
alias definition for that name.

=item *

B<bg>

It's now possible to do 'C<bg commandname>' (e.g. 'C<bg emacs>')
B<fg> has the same behaviour for consistency.

=item *

B<cd>

Respects C<CDPATH> now and sets C<OLDPWD>.

=back


=head2 Portability Enhancements

=over 4

=item *

Added portability infrastructure.

=item *

Working Win32 port (though it has limited features).

=back


=head2 Completion Enhancements

=over 4

=item *

Variables for bookmark completion are now
C<@Psh::Completion::bookmarks> and C<@Psh::Completion::netprograms>.

=item * 

New Perl Hashkey completion will TAB complete the name
of keys for Perl hashes (if they are not written in quotes).

=item *

Support for user defined completions by C<%Psh::Completion::custom_completions>.

=item *

Perl Symbol completion now supports package names and package name completion.

=item *

Support for TAB completions for builtins.

=item *

A C<custom_completions> entry may now also be code. If the
value of a C<custom_completions> key/value pair is a C<sub>
that C<sub> will be called and the result used as rules.

=item *

A rule for C<custom_completions> may now have an optional
third argument. If that argument is true, the
C<custom_completion> will replace the standard completions
instead of adding to them.

=item *

Filename Completion respects the C<FIGNORE> environment
variable now.

=back


=head2 Other Changes

=over 4

=item *

Documentation updates.

=item *

Locales defined for: Default (English), French, German, Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish.

=item *

New fallback builtins: B<ls>

=item *

Prompt evaluation is now more B<bash> compatible and handles even
more complex prompts.

=item *

Replaced C<Psh::OS::Unix::glob()> - now uses its own glob
routine instead of C<CORE::glob()> - and is significantly faster
(important for executable completion).

=item *

New variables: C<$Psh::Prompt_cont>, C<$Psh::result_array>.

=item *

Moved almost all code from C<psh> into C<Psh>, C<Psh::Builtins> and C<Psh::Util>.

=item *

Environment variable C<CURRENT_SHELL> is set to the path to B<psh>.

=back


=head2 Bug Fixes

=over 4

=item *

Generation of weekday names.

=item *

Small fixes for B<setenv>, print_list and abs_path.

=item *

Fixed signal description generation.

=back


=cut


###############################################################################
###############################################################################
##
## 0.004
##
###############################################################################
###############################################################################

=head1 0.004 [1999-12-13]

This release fixes bugs, refactors the code, and adds the
following features:

=over 4

=item *

Background process management much more like B<bash>.

=item *

Perl code in addition to executables may be put in the background.

=item *

Pipelines.

=item *

Initial internationalization.

=item *

New built-ins: C<alias>, C<export>, C<setenv>.

=item *

A flexible set of evaluation strategies that can be
selected or reordered by setting a configuration
variable.

=item *

Prompt strings can have escapes like C<\07> (ASCII C<BEL>) or
C<\10> (ASCII C<LF>).

=item *

avoided trying to save history if there wasn't even a
C<ReadLine> module.

=item *

added C<$psh::debugging> variable to hold the debugging
state, so it can be turned on and off in a running B<psh>.

=item *

A C<$psh::echo> variable to control whether perl results of
evaluation are printed.

=item *

The C<which> builtin now shows which strategy will apply to
a given command line

=item *

Grab more input automatically if C<E<lt>E<lt>BLOCK> appears
anywhere on the line, or if the line ends with an open brace.

=item *

results of C<&psh::which()> searches are hashed.

=item *

Thorough documentation of every user-accessible variable and function

=back

=cut


###############################################################################
###############################################################################
##
## 0.003
##
###############################################################################
###############################################################################

=head1 0.003 [1999-11-23]

Contributions from B<Markus Peter>:

=over 4

=item *

Rudimentary background jobs handling and job management.

=item *

Signal handling.

=item *

Filename completion.

=item *

Updates to history handling.

=item *

Flexible C<%built_ins> mechanism for adding built-in functions.

=item *

Smart mode is on by default.

=back

=cut


###############################################################################
###############################################################################
##
## 0.00205
##
###############################################################################
###############################################################################

=head1 0.00205 [1999-11-08]

=over 4

=item *

Changed prompting to pass prompt string into C<&iget()>,
which passes it on to C<&Term::ReadLine::readline()> or
prints it out if the C<ReadLine> module is not available.
Thanks to B<Sam Tregar> and B<tmb at lumo.com>.

=item *

Changed history handling so that empty lines and those
consisting of entirely whitespace are not recorded.

=item *

Fixed a couple of typos.

=item *

Changed the regular expression for `smart mode' to
allow C<vi +3 psh> in addition to C<ls -l>.

=item *

Now uses C<Getopt::Std> for option processing.

=item *

Fixed the code that detects the presence of C<Term::ReadLine>.

=item *

Made more use of debug mode to print out advisory information.

=item *

Use zero instead of C<undef> to set C<Term::ReadLine::MinLine>
so that we don't get C<undef> usage trouble in the guts of
C<Term::ReadLine::Gnu>.

=back

=cut


###############################################################################
###############################################################################
##
## 0.00204
##
###############################################################################
###############################################################################

=head1 0.00204 [1999-11-01]

=over 4

=item *

Added a bunch of stuff to the C<TODO> file.

=item *

Added parens around each part of the C<$interactive> detection expression.

=item *

Prompt variables are now dealt with via C<%prompt_vars>,
which can be modified, so that custom prompt variables
can be created.

=item *

Added C<%built_ins>.

=back

=cut


###############################################################################
###############################################################################
##
## 0.00203
##
###############################################################################
###############################################################################

=head1 0.00203 [1999-08-28]

=over 4

=item *

Fixed typo that caused a bug where prompt variable C<$>
didn't work. Thanks to B<John Labovitz>.

=back

=cut


###############################################################################
###############################################################################
##
## 0.00202
##
###############################################################################
###############################################################################

=head1 0.00202 [1999-08-23]

Patch.

=cut


###############################################################################
###############################################################################
##
## 0.00201
##
###############################################################################
###############################################################################

=head1 0.00201 [1999-08-23]

Patch.

=cut


###############################################################################
###############################################################################
##
## 0.002
##
###############################################################################
###############################################################################

=head1 0.002 [1999-07-23]

Second release.

=cut


###############################################################################
###############################################################################
##
## 0.001
##
###############################################################################
###############################################################################

=head1 0.001 [1999-07-23]

Initial release

=cut


#
# End of file.
#

