=head1 Introduction

The core developers use L<GitHub|https://github.com> to coordinate their work.
The official version lives at L<https://github.com/gnp/psh>. Anyone can clone the
code from there to their local machine and make local changes but only the core
developers can push their local commits back up to that GitHub project. However,
anyone can can create a GitHub account, and anyone with a GitHub account can fork a
copy of the project into their own user account, and then they can clone that copy
to their local machine and the commits they make to that can be pushed back up
to their fork on GitHub. People who do this are able to make a I<pull request>
asking for specific changes in their fork to be considered for merging into
the official version, all within the GitHub web site.

Requests for core developer status should be directed to the project
administrator, Gregor N. Purdy, Sr. E<lt>F<gnp@acm.org>E<gt>. We keep the number of core
developers low, but occasionally slots will open up. People who have submitted
useful and high quality pull requests in the past will be given priority for
membership in the project.


=head1 GitHub

Creating a GitHub account is quick, easy and free. Just go to their web site at
L<https://github.com/signup/free>. You can upgrade a free account to a paid
account in future if you decide you want some of the paid account features.

GitHub has great help on getting started with git as well as with their
service.


=head1 Welcome

Welcome to the wonderful world of Perl Shell hacking. We look forward to your
contributions.

Here are some things to keep in mind while hacking:

=over 4

=item *

Please write good commit messages. Some more specific advice is available
L<here|http://tbaggery.com/2008/04/19/a-note-about-git-commit-messages.html>.

=item *

Please write test programs in the F<t/> directory whenever you can. The better
we make this test suite, the higher the quality of our releases.

=item *

Please make high level notes in the F<CHANGES.pod> file, because these are
edited to make the final F<CHANGES.pod> when we make releases.

=item *

After you've made some major contributions, you may want to create an
entry for yourself in the F<psh.pod> file's CONTRIBUTORS section.

=back

--I<The Perl Shell Core Team>

